---
layout: post
title: My path to destiny - join Maker's Academy
---

I have been deciding whether or not to keep a blog.  My initial feeling was no I do not have time for this, but now come to think of it, it will be great to record this life-changing experience.  

For many of us who enrolled onto Maker's Academy, giving up full time employment to step into something completely new is a huge commitment.  For me, finally, everything felt 'right' about the decision to come on the course, but it has already been an adventurous journey.  

As a graduate of mathematics, and someone who loves maths, I made a point of staying 'pure' by avoiding applied maths as well as coding while I was at university.  It seems however, I cannot escape my destiny.  During my first a few years working as a risk analyst for a city finance firm, truth be told - the work was beyond boredom for me, and my only source of stimulation came from hijacking IT dev work for my desk by doing them myself with VBA for excel!  OK I really didn't know what I was doing, only put together some codes that seemed to work, though the code suffered from gross inefficiency.  It was great fun, and more fun than I care to admit.  It wasn't going to end there however, a few years later, as a full time maths tutor.  I furthered my coding adventure by writing randomized question generator with customization parameters that produced worksheet pdfs with answers for my unfortunate students.  Then recently, in order to keep up my gaming of clash of clans with very little time to spare.  I wrote a bot with autohotkey to farm resources for me on clash!  Writing this code was incredible fun, I had more fun writing the code than playing the game!  Finally after much thought, I realized in order to one day develop the educational maths technologies I have in mind, I must understand how to develop softwares. And I must learn from the best, no matter what the cost, if I am to realize my goal, this is where I must be!  It is not so bad however, after all, I do enjoy coding more than I would admit, and I wish I had embarked on this journey earlier - better late than never!
