---
layout: post
title: What A Bloggy Mess
---

Today my taks in the morning was to move my blog from ghost.io to be hosted on github, as it is the cool thing to do and will allow me to have more control and practice git with github.  So I found a nice guide with a link to a premade github repo, which I forked and cloned to my Mac.  The blogsite was up immediately, I very happy and impressed.  Further more, it was quickly apparent that the succinct setup structure allowed me to add things to the blog relatively easily.  So I copied over some of my old posts from ghost.io, added commited and pushed up the change to github, and bam it worked as expected...very cool, almost feel like a developer...

So I became a little more ambitious, I decided to go get a custom domain name - ok this bit is easy enough.  However, associating it to the blog was...gave me...headache and heart ache!  Anyway, I tried to follow the guide to link the domain name, it sort of worked.  After an hour, I was able to use the new domain name to access the blog on my Mac.  At this point I was euphoric.  I decided to see if I can add commenting capability.  As I was looking into it, I decided to checkout the blog on my pc.  No reason to suspect why it won't work right?  Well it didn't, and after trying for 30 mins to make it work and couldn't, the frustraction began.  So it worked on my Mac but not PC nor my tablet.  At some point I became fedup and just wanted to reset back to an earlier commit before I made change to associate the domain name. However, this did not resolve the problem.  Getting more frustrated after an hour and half of trying everything...googling, restarting from zero (that's right I deleted the repo haha), ohr deleting the repo and forking it again etc did make a change - I started getting 404 webpage not found on my Mac.  That's progress!  

By now I have been plagued by this for at least two hours, as a last resort I raised an issue on github screaming for help (was it obvious?:P).  And at the same time, I called my domain resgistration company demanding any link of the domain name to my github blog to be severed as cleanly as possible...to my surprise, my call was answered by someone from the UK promptly, with a great deal of expertise it seems, and gave me what I wanted very quickly.  I paid £2 for that domain name for a year, the customer service for these £2 is probably the best I got for anything!  There was more good news, I also emailed github support, who came back to me very fast, and within 15 mins, corresponded with me and solved the problem...maybe not the mystery of what exactly was wrong.  

After the link to the new domain was severed, it seems my browser still had the information stored in cache so it did not look at the correct github url.  That was it.  Although I am still unsure as to if the link had ever worked and to what extent...this is still a mystery.  Nevertheless my github blog is now alllllliiivvvvvveeee!!!  And when I have some more stomach I will try to link it again with my new domain name.  

The new Ruby work came in today, and its our old pal's book Chris Pine.  I have actually completed most of the exercises apart from the very vague ones (imo), so it was just a case of finishing it off and respecing it to check the solutions.  The only one so far that caught me out was english_numbers, come on, Chris Pine never said anything about

```
translates 109238745102938560129834709285360238475982374561034 to one hundred nine quindecillion two hundred thirty-eight quattuordecillion seven hundred forty-five tredecillion one hundred two duodecillion nine hundred thirty-eight undecillion five hundred sixty decillion one hundred twenty-nine nonillion eight hundred thirty-four octillion seven hundred nine septillion two hundred eighty-five sextillion three hundred sixty quintillion two hundred thirty-eight quadrillion four hundred seventy-five trillion nine hundred eighty-two billion three hundred seventy-four million five hundred sixty-one thousand thirty-four
```

you guys are crazy, I don't even know half of these big numbers and I did maths at uni hahaha.  Luckily for me, my code allowed for generalization, I only had to add in these wierd and wonderful large units to make it work. 

Tomorrow is another rest day for me!  Hurray!  Taking my family out somewhere, while the summer lasts.  For once September begin, there will be no oppotunity... 
