---
layout: post
title: Back to Codewars!
---

After two weeks of absence from Codewars, I am back!  First did the validate sudoku kyu 4 kata, o boy do I suck hard!  After ages, finally managed to get it correctly submitted, but the code was ugly and too long.  Even though I spent some considerable amount of time to refactor it, however I do believe it is an important part of my learning.  Since I am so used to basic for loops, long winded if statements and do things with the basics very slowly, and the whole point is to learn to use more slick and effect ruby, write the code the ruby way - succinct and compact.  I suppose what depressed me a more is to look at some of the such short solutions after I submitted it.

I was going to do something else in the afternoon, like start the Git precourse material, but another kata caught my eye: *Recover a secret string from random triplets*.  Basically one has to order the letters which forms a secret word based on the clues given: such as **t** before **i**, **a** before **t**, **r** before **t**, **r** before **i**. I thought it was going to be simple and I had a great idea to work it: store unique letters (keys) in a hash, give each letter a default value of 0, and with each clue, update the weight values with formula such as value_i = value_i + prev_letter_value + 1.  Do this recursively until the order (by weight value) does not change any more.  Sounds cool right? turns out I was wrong, and the idea didn't work and too long to explain!  So in the end, had to implement some other less numerical ideas, which actually worked great, but my coding was rusty and slow and it took the whole afternoon!  So in the end the solution was accepted...relief!  The next bit is always depressing, looking at all these other solutions which as so short - just to remind me what a long way I have to go!  Planning to look into some of these nifty solutions to learn some more, hopefully will be useful for the next kata.  

Tomorrow I am taking my family to the beach at Broadstairs!  It was be my 14 months old son's first trip to the beach, wonder if he likes sandcastles and waves!  Last but not least, I think tonight I may take some rest and maybe do some dungeon crawling in diablo 3 with some mates!
