---
layout: post
title: Ruby Gems
---

Ruby gems are libraries written by the community or developers that can be easily used across projects.  There are gems for all different purposes: testing, styling, sending text messages from ruby programs, website building frameworks such as Ruby on Rails and Sinatra to name a few gems which are widely used.

To quickly install a gem for use in a ruby project, simply enter into command-line:

```
$ gem install name_of_gem
```

This manual approach of installing gems is advised against, since it is hard for anyone else to know what gems were used for the project.  If the project was to be shared with collaborators, everyone need to know the gems that the project is working with.  To better manage this, we use bundler, which is surprise surprise another gem!  This one need to be installed manually, but once installed you can use it to install other gems in a collective way, and control through making a Gemfile, which contains a list of gems needed for the project.  After the Gemfile is created, everyone has a copy of it on their local repo, and running

```
bundle install
```

installs all the gems listed in the Gemfile together with their dependencies, thus creating a consistent environment for all collaborators to work on the project.

As an example of using ruby gems, we can look at the rspec gem.  To install rspec, have it in the list of gems in your Gemfile such as

```
source 'https://rubygems.org'
ruby '2.2.3'

gem 'rspec'
```

Then run the above said 'bundle install' to install rspec and other listed gems in the Gemfile.  Now that rspec is installed, we have access to the rspec syntax and testing suite, all of which is just ruby - a libraries created with syntax minicing English language for readability while creating test suites.  Thus we can write tests like:

```ruby
require 'dish'

describe Dish do

  describe "#initialize/new" do
    it "can make a new dish of name 'egg fried rice' with price of 4.50" do
      new_dish = Dish.new('egg fried rice', 4.50)
      expect(new_dish.name).to eq('egg fried rice')
      expect(new_dish.price).to eq(4.50)
    end
  end

  describe '#display_info' do
    it 'displays correct dish information' do
      dish = Dish.new('Egg Fried Rice',3.95)
      expect(dish.display_info).to eq(
      'Egg Fried Rice   £ 3.95')
    end
  end

end
```

and then entering 'rspec' in command-line to run the tests.

There are dangers associated with using gems, essentially these are code libraries written by others, and you will be dependent on them to have done a good job with the gems.  If written badly or maliciously, there could potentially be hidden issues which may surface at a later date to ruin your project.  

With gem usage, you are trading convenience for control.  Luckily, most of the time, the trade works out incredibly well!
